So there are some PAT files that may use encrypted DDSes. These are typically some character pats and System pats,
especially the UI elements for loading and such.

You may be able to open character DDSes in Pani Edit and export them there. You usually cannot open all other types of pats at all.
You will have to use some more hex surgery as you may have already done before.

The process can be very simple, however.

0) Of course, de-index the /d/ file reference for the pat you want to edit.

1) Extract the DDS files of the pat you are trying to edit, preferably using the script in the repo to get all of them at once.

2) Use the ddsconvert tools to decompress the DDS you want to edit.

3) Modify the DDS, and then save using DXT5 format (BC3 Linear). Use default settings. Yes, the quality will die, but alas.

4) Open Pani Edit, and immediately go to Edit > Texture Manager and import your DDS file to that first slot.

5) Close and SAVE the pat file as a test file, naming it whatever you want.

6) Open the pat you want to edit (have you backed-up?) along with the test pat you're going to inject using a hex editor. View the test pat first.
You will notice the file is rather short as all you did was add the image with some PAT header info.
You will want to find and select a good portion before the DDS header.
The part you're looking for : "VEEDPGST....PGNM"
This is the DDS page that Pani Edit has saved. Select STARTING from PGNM (inclusive). You will select all the way to the END of the file, UNTIL PGED (inclusive.
Do NOT include _END at the very end of the file.
Copy the HEX data after confirming you have selected from PGNM <...> PGED (pagename to pageend).

7) Go back to the file you want to edit, and find the DDS page in which you want to overwrite the DDS data. Try searching for all instances of DDS | if you haven't mapped it out yet.
Once you've found the DDS, go just a bit further back in the data to find the similar PGST....PGNM header.
You will be selecting from PGNM once again and selecting all the way to the matching instance of PGED.
Paste, which will certainly change the filesize. Do NOT insert, replace.
You have replaced the DDS page without altering the PGST.... which is the Page Start Number ID.

8) Save. Start the game and cross your fingers.

If it works, congratulations. Do all other edits this way, organizing your files in order to help yourself.

If there are horrible visual artifacts, you saved the wrong format type.

If there is a crash, I'm sorry, but try again. This engine is horrible.